Hello welcome back to the course and Part II in the OF we learned about drilling down and drilling up
in a nation.
And today we're going to learn two new techniques for looking at more details views of all vessels.
And so these are these bottles are here show next level and expand next level.
So let's have a look at how they work.
Once you've selected the ocean and onto the drill tab over here let's click Show next level and just
see what happens to a chart.
I'm going to click it now as you can see.
Now the core is up here instead of the years.
And the interesting thing here is that quarter one and quarter on the left.
If I go back up we'll see them 2014 on the left here which is which only contains quarter three and
quarter four because it's got the last two quarters of 2014 and quarter and 2015 contains the first
two quarters quarter one and quarter two of that year.
And when we go to show next level now the quarters are in the wrong order and I'm saying wrong with
virtual quotation marks here because from the Parbat is perspective it's completely correct because
what happened here is if you look at the at the higher on the right we've got order date which has broken
down into year quarter month and day and by clicking the show next level option we're saying okay completely
disregard year and go to a quarter but don't don't consider year at all.
And that's what exactly our power bill is doing it's looking at all of the data and it's trying to understand
for every row in which quarter it is regardless of the year and then grouping it like that.
And that's why corer want to appear to be here because power be-I is disregarding year you can see that
here it's as units by quarter doesn't even contain the year.
So we can drill in further again go by going to show next level.
And here now we've got Jennifer March April May June and these months are actually from 2015 these months
from 2016 but this delegation is by month.
And when I'm saying aggregation I mean that again in our dataset if we go to a dataset you'll see here
that every row is a transaction on a certain date.
Right.
So and then we're just aggregating them up to a certain level.
And here this level is specified as month.
So a year and quarter information are disregarded and the data is aggregated up to the month level.
And then if we go to the next level again which you'll see here is that we've got just the days of the
day number.
And again it is irrespective of any higher levels in this hierarchy so Year Quarter and month are completely
disregarded and we just see units by day.
And this actually brings up a very interesting concept.
So if I look at for example Order day four or so.
How many units were ordered on the fourth month of fourth day.
But then the question is of what Which month.
But right now RBI doesn't really look at them and doesn't look at the Month at all.
It just looks at the day so in euros wherever the day of the month of any month is number four that's
the those rows will be aggregated into this bar.
And so let's have a look at our data set.
Let's see where we can find find the date before.
So if we look down like this way for some it is scroll up to the top so if I look down here you can
see Friday July the 4th right.
So this row has the day as the fourth.
Then if I keep scrolling down we keep looking down.
I must've missed one.
There it is Thursday December the 4th.
There is another one so and if you look through all of them there's only two so Friday July the 4th
2014 and Thursday December the 4th 2014 as well.
So those two rows are going to be aggregated and you can check that because the units here is 62.
And in this one the unit is 94 so together is a hundred and fifty six.
If I look at this this is exactly 156.
So what we have done here is we've aggregated our data at day level but we've disregarded the of the
higher levels in that hierarchy.
And sometimes that can be useful especially if you're dealing with categorical data rather than dates.
And then you've got a categorical hurricane you might want to break it down like that.
But in our case this might not be the best approach so we're going to do now is we're going to just
go back up we're going to drill up go back to the start and this time instead of showing next level
we're going to expand the next level.
So let's see what happens then if we expand next level.
Now we're preserving information about the higher level and are higher.
And even though the data is ordered it's not ordered correctly so go 20:15 first and then 2014.
That is very easily fixable.
Just now the most important thing is that we are preserving the information that we've got units by
year and quarter.
So here we're keeping the year as well as the core.
So now for these 3.00 here I can just set select sort by year quarter if I like that you can see 2014
quarter 3 2014 quarter for 2015 2015 quarter 2 so it's sorted in a chronological order.
Now if I go to expand next level again you'll see that again it's expanded.
But this time is preserved all of the higher level.
So you've got your quarter and month 2014 quarter through July and August September and so on.
So again it's sort in the correct order.
And then if I go to expand this again now you'll see many more dates because the higher levels in our
heart care preserve.
So for instance let's make some more space.
So for instance here you've got a 2014 course 3 July the 4th.
62 units sold.
And then if you go to December you've got December the 4th separately as well.
So and that is solely due to the fact that we've preserved the year quarter and month as well as added
the day into our granularity.
So now we are actually seeing a very detailed picture and we know all of the above information in our
hurricane.
So that's how these two buttons work and we'll be using them.
We'll be using all four of these throughout our
work with power be-I and they are very very powerful and they help us navigate through the different
levels of aggregation and granularity.
And of course we got this final button here see records.
You can always just click that and whenever you select something it'll actually show you the records
for that
element on your results.
And so if I do love for instance and I select December here will show me the records for that for December
2014 quarter for December so that's in case you want to just actually investigate what's going on in
the dataset.
That's another additional feature that is very handy as well.
So I hope you enjoyed today's Tauriel and even though these functions might seem new and even maybe
complicated as we go through this course we'll get more and more used to them and very soon you will
feel extremely comfortable using these patterns and different functions in your work with RBI.
And I look forward to next them until then happy annelid.